---
slug: 2025-12-22-yelahanka
title: 'Yelahanka: Best Area to Invest in Bangalore'
url: https://yourblog.com/blogs/2025-12-22-yelahanka
---

# Yelahanka: Best Area to Invest in Bangalore\n\nYelahanka has rapidly transformed from a suburb to a self dependent, high appreciation area in North Bangalore. When Hebbal became too congested and the prices of homes soared, smart buyers and investors shifted towards Yelahanka that full.\n\n This made Yelankha not just a road to reach the airport, but a new hotspot for the real estate market.  Surrounded by well constructed infrastructural investments (Metro Blue Line), luxury residential townships and seamless connectivity to tech parks like Manayata Tech Park.\n\nThis guide will deep dive into the current market reality and what makes Yelahanka a new hotspot for both living and investment purposes.\n\n### Yelahanka for the New Home Buyer\n\nYelahanka\u0027s appeal is rooted in its ability to offer a premium, planned lifestyle for a comparatively lower entry price than its saturated neighbours like Hebbal or the Outer Ring Road (ORR) main stretches.\n\n\n\n| Feature | Key Takeaway | Why it Matters |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| **Connectivity** | Super connectivity to Airport (KIA), Hebbal, and the upcoming Metro Blue Line. | Shorter commute to airport and core city areas is essential for professionals and frequent travellers. |\n| **Future Growth** | Metro Blue Line (Phase 2B) and Aerospace SEZ expansion. | Guarantees massive price appreciation and creates a highly stable employment base for rental income. |\n| **Market Trend** | Less saturation than Hebbal and currently more affordable (especially in New Town). | Offers value for money for investors and high capital appreciation potential for the home buyer. |\n| **Lifestyle** | Planned roads, abundant green spaces, and distinct Old Town heritage. | Maintains work-life balance and strongly appeals to urban families seeking a planned, safe environment. |\n---\n### Residential Living in Yelahanka\n\nYelahanka brings a serene atmosphere with high quality living across two distinct zones (the Old Town and New Town)\n\n**Pros:**  \n\n**1. Strategic Corridor:** The area offers excellent proximity to Airport, Hebbal and ORR via the NH-44. This makes it ideal for professionals working at Manyata Tech Park and the Aerospace SEZ.\n\n  **2. Serene Greenery:** The new town features planned layouts, wide avenues, and local parks (including Yelahanka Lake), providing open natural space. \n\n**3. Diverse Housing Options:** Wide variety of options available from budget apartments to luxurious developments in different configurations catering to every home buyer needs.  \n\n#### **Cons:** \n\n1. **Road Construction:** Roadwork due to the Metro Blue Line and flyover can cause traffic diversions and dust. \n\n2. **Distance to Core City:** Although highway connectivity is excellent, commuting to core central business district can take over an hour during peak traffic.\n\n3. **Older Infrastructure:** **Yelahanka Old Town** faces challenges of older urban centers, such, as narrow roads and organic development. \n---\n### Property Price Trends in Yelahanka\n\nThe Yelahanka real estate market is transitioning from a high-potential zone to an established premium destination. This can be seen from the new developments by prominent builders like Brigade, Godrej, Embassy in this market. \n\nThe high appreciation rates confirm that Yelahanka is no longer a peripheral location but a **core, premium investment corridor**. With an average current price of approximately **₹8,822 to ₹11,900 per sq. ft.**, existing ready-to-move-in projects are bound to appreciate at a higher pace as the Metro nears completion.\n\n#### Prominent Builder Price Trend \n\n| Project Name | Launch Year | Launch Price  | Current Price (2025) | Future Price (2030)  |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| **Brigade El Dorado** | 2017 | ₹5,100/ sq. ft. | ₹8,800/ sq. ft.  | ₹12,500/ sq. ft.  |\n| **Sobha Palm Court** | 2019 | ₹8,000/ sq ft. | ₹12,800/ sq. ft. | ₹24,000/ sq. ft. |\n\n#### Mid Segment Price Trend \n\n| Project Name | Launch Year | Launch Price  | Current Price\u000b(2025)  | Future Price (2030) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| **Purva Zenium** | 2019 | ₹6,500/ sq. ft. | ₹9500/ sq. ft. | ₹13,000/ sq. ft. |\n| **Godrej Avenue** | 2018 | ₹5,800/ sq. ft. | ₹10,500/ sq. ft. | ₹14,000/ sq. ft. |\n\n---\n### Why Yelahanka is a Strategic Commercial Investment\n\nYelahanka provides the strongest confluence of infrastructure, employment, and future planning in North Bangalore.\n\n#### **Key Investment Pillars**\n\n| Pillar | Detail | Impact on Value |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| **High Appreciation** | It is projected annual price growth of 8% to 12%, and it also has the potential to increase more after the metro development | This will lead to higher return on investment (ROI) as compared to other saturated markets in north Bangalore. |\n| **Infrastructure Security** | Metro Blue Line (Phase 2B) and Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) will significantly improve the connectivity. | Guarantees future accessibility, reducing investment risk. |\n| **Huge Tech Parks** | Attracts professionals due to close proximity to Manyata Tech Park and the massive KIADB. | Ensures sustained rental demand (3%- 5% yield) from highly paid professionals. |\n| **Social Amenities** | Presence of premium education infrastructure  and super-specialty hospitals makes it a desirable family location. | Drives long-term residential demand and ensure rental yields. |\n---\n### Education, Healthcare, and Tech Parks\n| Category | Key Institutions / Hubs | Distance from Yelahanka New Town (Approx.) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| **Top Schools** | Canadian International School, DPS Yelahanka, Ryan International School, Vidyashilp Academy. | 5 km to 10 km |\n| **Hospitals** | SPARSH Hospital (Multi-specialty), Cytecare Cancer Hospital (Specialty), Navachethana Hospital. | 2 km to 7 km |\n| **Tech Parks** | Manyata Tech Park (ORR), KIADB Aerospace SEZ. | 10 km to 15 km |\n---\n## Top Residential societies in Yelahanka\n\n**Concorde Mayfair:**  \nMayfair is a newly launched residential project by Concorde on the Yelahanka, Bellary Road.  \nBeing located on the airport road it offers access to upcoming communities \u0026 facilities. The project offers spacious 2,3 BHK homes along with modern amenities. With only 217 units it promises breathability and beautifully designed spaces making it more special and elite.. Its close connectivity with L\u0026 T Tech Park attracts professionals who commute daily.  \n\n\n| Year Built | 2028 (in- construction) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 3.17 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 4 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 14 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 217 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 2,3 BHK |\n| Average Rate | ₹14500/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Sparsh Hospital: 0.8  km  \n- Rainbow Children’s Hospital: 4.2 km  \n- Manipal Hospital Whitefield: 6 km\n\n**Educations:**  \n- Ryan International School: 1.1 km  \n- Canadian International School:  4.3 km  \n- Orchids International School: 4.7 km  \n- Delhi Public School: 7.4 km\n\n**Tech Hubs:**  \n- L \u0026 T Tech Park : 4.3 km  \n- RMZ Latitude: 5.3 km  \n- Ecopolis Hinduja: 8.4 km  \n- Manyata Tech Park:  10.5 km\n\n**Connectivity:**  \n- Yelahanka Metro Station: 1.3 km  \n- Phoenix Mall of Asia: 4.4 km  \n- Kempegowda International Airport: 18 Km\n\n**Price Trends \u0026 Comparison:**\n\n| Launch Price (2024) | Current Price (2025) | Future Price (2030) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| ₹12,500/ sq. ft. | ₹13,000/ sq. ft. | ₹16000/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Brigade Eternia**  \nEternia by Brigade is a  luxury residential project located in Yelahanka. The development is designed with green spaces, premium amenities to promote a healthier lifestyle. The project is carefully crafted to meet the aspirations of urban families looking for a serene lifestyle experience. It ensures seamless commuting while offering a peaceful residential setting.  \nWith expansive green spaces, world-class amenities, and an inspired living experience, Eternia opens the door to a universe of endless possibilities.\n\n\n\n| Year Built | 2030 (in- construction) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 14 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 12 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 14 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 1124 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 2,3 BHK |\n| Current Rate | ₹15000/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Sparsh Hospital: 2  km  \n- Rainbow Children’s Hospital: 4.2 km  \n- Manipal Hospital: 6.5 km  \n- Aster CMI Hospital, Hebbal: 7.4 km\n\n**Educations:**  \n- Ryan International School: 1.1 km  \n- Canadian International School:  4.3 km  \n- Orchids International School: 4.7 km  \n- Delhi Public School: 7.4 km\n\n**Tech Hubs:**  \n- Embassy Business Hub : 2  km  \n- Northgate Office Park: 2.4 km  \n- Kirloskar Tech Park: 6.5 km  \n- Manyata Tech Park:  7 km\n\n**Connectivity:**  \n- Yelahanka Metro Station: 1.3 km  \n- Phoenix Mall of Asia: 5 km  \n- Kempegowda International Airport: 17 Km\n\n**Price Trends \u0026 Comparison:**\n\n| Launch Price (March 2025\\) | Current Price (Dec 2025\\) | Future Price (2030) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| ₹15,000/ sq. ft. | ₹18000/ sq. ft. | ₹22000/ sq. ft. |\n\n**3\\. Brigade Insignia**  \nInsignia by Brigade is a new luxury apartment project launched at the crux of Airport Road (Bellary Road NH4) offering access to upcoming communities \u0026 facilities. The development presents 3,4,5 BHK penthouse apartments with luxurious amenities. It presents more than 60% of open spaces and lush greenery to make you feel relaxed and spacious inside the development. It provides all the big tech parks, attracting professionals and urban families.\n\n\n\n| Year Built | 2029 (in- construction) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 6 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 6 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 15 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 379 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 3,4,5 BHK |\n| Current Rate | ₹16200/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Sparsh Hospital: 2  km  \n- Rainbow Children’s Hospital: 4.2 km  \n- Manipal Hospital Whitefield: 6.5 km  \n- Aster CMI Hospital, Hebbal: 7.4 km\n\n**Educations:**  \n- Nitte Meenakshi Institute of Technology: 1.3 km  \n- Canadian International School:  2 km  \n- Mallya Aditi International School: 4km  \n- Vidyashilip Academy: 5 km \n\n**Tech Hubs:**  \n- Sattva Horizon: 1km  \n- L \u0026 T Business Park: 7.8 km  \n- Manyata Tech Park:  8 km  \n- Prestige Tech Cloud: 10.9 km\n\n**Connectivity:**  \n- Yelahanka Metro Station: 1.3 km  \n- Phoenix Mall of Asia: 4 km  \n- Kempegowda International Airport: 17 Km\n\n**Price Trends \u0026 Comparison:**\n\n| Launch Price (2024) | Current Price (2025) | Future Price (2030) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| ₹16,200/ sq. ft. | ₹16,700/ sq. ft. | ₹21000/ sq. ft. |\n\n**4. Zen \u0026 Sato**  \nZen \u0026 Sato by Assetz Property is a new architectural masterpiece residential project in the heart of Yalahanka. The project offers 3 \u0026 4 BHk luxury homes, designed to meet the needs of modern families and working professionals. Whether you are looking for a home for personal use or an investment opportunity, this is no doubt an ideal choice, attracting homebuyers who are looking for high end residential living in the upcoming growing part of Bangalore. The project is strategically connected to IT parks, hospitals and retail destinations.\n\n\n\n| Year Built | 2030 (in- construction) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 7 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 4 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 14 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 412 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 3,4 BHK |\n| Current Rate | ₹16200/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Sparsh Hospital: 5.5 km  \n- Manipal Hospital Whitefield: 3.7 km  \n- Omega Multispeciality Hospital: 4 km  \n- Aster CMI Hospital, Hebbal: 10.5 km\n\n**Educations:**  \n- Reva University: 1km  \n- Delhi Public School: 2 km  \n- Ryan International School: 4.5 km  \n- Presidency School: 6 km\n\n**Tech Hubs:**  \n- Bagmane Sierra Business District: 2 km  \n- North Gate Tech Park (Phase 1): 2 km  \n- KIADB Aerospace Park: 7 km  \n- Manyata Embassy Business Park: 9  km\n\n**Connectivity:**  \n- Upcoming Metro Station: 2 km  \n- Yelahanka Metro Station: 5 km  \n- Phoenix Mall of Asia: 10 km  \n- Kempegowda International Airport: 14 Km\n\n**Price Trends \u0026 Comparison:**\n\n| Launch Price (Aug 2025\\) | Current Price (Dec 2025\\) | Future Price (2030) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| ₹13,500/ sq. ft. | ₹13,500/ sq. ft. | ₹16000/ sq. ft. |\n\n**5\\. Sobha Palm Court**  \nPalm Court by Sobha is ready-to-move-in development situated in Yelahanka, Kogilu Road. It offers various apartment options in varied budget range delivery comfort and style that match the requirements and suit the convenience. The project offers luxurious modern day amenities at their clubhouse with lush greenery in the whole development. It’s close vicinity to the Airport, Tech Hubs and economic hubs make it the most sought after residential address for home buyers.\n\n\n\n| Year Built | 2022 (in- construction) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 4.9 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 2 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 18 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 294 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 3 BHK |\n| Current Rate | ₹12800/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Manipal Hospital Whitefield: 1.2 km  \n- Omega Multispeciality Hospital: 2.5 km  \n- Sparsh Hospital: 3 km  \n- Aster CMI Hospital, Hebbal: 7 km\n\n**Educations:**  \n- EuroSchool North Campus: 0.1 km  \n- Canadian International School: 2.7 km  \n- Ryan International School: 4 km  \n- Presidency PU College: 4 km\n\n**Tech Hubs:**  \n- North Gate Office Park: 1.5 km  \n- Bhartiya City Information Technology: 5 km  \n- -Manyata Embassy Business Park: 6.5 km  \n- Kirloskar Business Park: 10 km\n\n**Connectivity:**  \n- Yelahanka Junction Railway Station: 2 km  \n- Yelahanka Metro Station: 3 km  \n- Phoenix Mall of Asia: 9 km  \n- Kempegowda International Airport: 20 km\n\n**Price Trends \u0026 Comparison:**\n\n| Launch Price (2016) | Current Price (2025) | Future Price (2030) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| ₹8,000/ sq. ft. | ₹12800/ sq. ft. | ₹16000/ sq. ft. |\n\n---\n### Conclusion\nYelahanka is the best next step for anyone looking beyond the heavy congestion and rising costs of Hebbal. It offers a rare blend of historical roots and modern planning, giving families more room to breathe without sacrificing city conveniences.\n\nWith the Metro Blue Line on the horizon and the Aerospace SEZ driving job growth, buying here isn\u0027t just about finding a home, it\u0027s about making a high-growth investment.\n\nFor the modern homebuyer, Yelahanka is the perfect \"sweet spot\" where you can escape the city-center chaos while staying firmly connected to Bangalore’s bright northern future.