---
slug: 2025-12-3-varthur
title: 'Varthur: Best Place to Live in Bangalore'
url: https://yourblog.com/blogs/2025-12-3-varthur
---

## Varthur: Best to Live in Bangalore\nVarthur has quickly transformed from a suburb area to a self-sustaining, high growth area in East Bangalore. It is no longer an alternative to Whitefield or Sarjapur Road but the new hotspot corridor in Bengaluru.\n\nSurrounded by enormous infrastructural investments, premium residential projects and its connectivity to major Tech Parks , brings the perfect investment opportunity and amazing work-life balance for new homeowners.\n\nThis guide will deep dive in the current market reality and what makes Varthur a new hotspot for Both living and investment purposes.\n\n---\n\n### Varthur for the new Home Buyer\n\nVarthur\u0027s appeal is rooted in its ability to offer a premium lifestyle for a comparatively lower entry price than its saturated neighbours.\n\n| Feature | Key Takeaway | Why it Matters |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| **Connectivity** | Super connectivity to Whitefield, ORR \u0026 Sarjapur Road | Shorter commute is really essential especially for professionals |\n| **Future Growth** | Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) | Promises price appreciation in the future and accessibility |\n| **Market Trend** | Less saturated market than Whitefield and affordable | Offering value for money for investors and home buyer |\n| **Lifestyle** | More than 80% lush greenery and also includes Varthur Lake. | Maintains work life balance and appeals to urban families. |\n\n### Residential Living in Varthur\n\nVarthur offers a balanced, high quality living experience, but residents must be aware of local challenges.\n\n**Pros:**\n\n1. IT Corridor: Great connectivity with Whitefield, Sarjapur road, Marathahalli and ORR making it excellent for professionals.\n\n2. Lush Greenery: Numerous local parks and Varthur Lake providing open natural space to the home buyers.\n\n3. Diverse Housing options: wide options for housing from affordable apartments toluxury villas.\n\n**Cons:**\n\n1. Water Clogging Issues: Some low lying areas face temporary water clogging during heavy monsoon rains\n\n2. Peak Hour Traffic: Significant congestion, especially near major junctions and business zones during commuting hours.\n\n---\n### Property Price trends in Varthur\n\nThe current pre-launch price for a premium project like **Prestige Raintree Park** (located near the start of Whitefield/Varthur Road) is set high, indicating the market\u0027s expectation for the corridor.\n\nPremium projects like Prestige Raintree Park set at the start of Varthur- Whitefield corridor. This sets a new market expectation for the price.\n\nThis confirms that Varthur is no longer an offbeat location but a core, premium investment.\n\n### Prominent Builder Price Trend:\n**Prestige Lakeside Habitat**\n\n| Launch Price (2016) | Current Price (2025) | Future Price (2030) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| ₹4700/ sq. ft. | ₹12500/ sq. ft. | ₹18,000/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Brigade Cornstone Utopia**\n\n| Launch Price (2018) | Current Price (2025) | Future Price (2030) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| ₹4800/ sq. ft. | ₹12500/ sq. ft. | ₹16,000/ sq. ft. |\n\n### Mid Segment Price Trend:\n\n**Candeur Landmark**\n\n| Launch Price (2018) | Current Price (2025) | Future Price (2030) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| ₹4800/ sq. ft. | ₹10000/ sq. ft. | ₹13,000/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Myhna Maple**\n\n| Launch Price (2017) | Current Price (2025) | Future Price (2030) |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| ₹4800/ sq. ft. | ₹10,000/ sq. ft. | ₹13,000/ sq. ft. |\n---\n## Top Residential Properties in Varthur\n### 1. Brigade Cornnerstone Utopia\nCornerstone Utopia by Brigade, is one of the luxury projects located in Varthur. The township offers a state of the art club that brings premium apartments with luxury amenities and facilities. The township blends technology, comfort and sustainability offering a serene experience to the home buyer. The township is well connected with tech parks, entertainment areas and education facilities. The township will be a microcosm of an ideal city where smart and user-friendly designs have been used to plan the aesthetics and amenities.\n\n\n\n| Year Built | 2024 |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 47 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 22  |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 26 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 4233 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 1, 2,3 BHK |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Manipal Hospital: 2.9 Km  \n- Sri Sathya Sai Super Speciality Hospital: 8.2 km  \n- Narayana Multispeciality Hospital, Whitefield: 8.3 km  \n- Manipal Hospital Whitefield: 8.6 km\n\n**Educations:**  \n- Global Indian International School(GIIS):  4.2 km  \n- Chistiya International School:  2km  \n- MVJ College of Engineering: 7 km\n\n**Tech Hubs:**  \n- Brigade Tech Park: 7.2 km  \n- ITPL Park: 7.5 km  \n- coworld: 9 km\n\n**Connectivity:**  \n- Hope Farm Metro Station: 5 Km  \n- Whitefield Railway Station: 7.3 Km  \n- KR Puram Railway Station: 14.6 km\n\n### Price Trends \u0026 Comparison:\n\n| Launch Price (2018) | Current Price (Dec 2025\\) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| ₹4,700/ sq. ft. | ₹12500/ sq. ft. |\n\n### 2. Prestige Lakeside Habitat  \nLakeside Habitat by Prestige located in Whitefield is Bangalore’s first and only Disney themed residential development. The project offers 1,2,3 and 4 BHK luxurious and spacious apartments.  \nThe project lies in the heart of Varthur and provides premium amenities that include fully equipped clubhouse, gyms, numerous outdoor courts and state of the art 24/7 security.\n\n\n\n| Year Built | 2020 |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 102 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 24  |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 26 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 3699 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 2,3,4 BHK |\n\n**Hospital**  \n- Sri Sathya Sai Institute Of Higher Medical Sciences: 1.8 Km  \n- Vydehi Hospital Multi Speciality: 1.4 Km  \n- Sri Sathya Sai Institute Of Higher Medical Sciences: 1.8 Km  \n- Aster Whitefield Hospital: 2.5 Km  \n- Manipal Hospital Whitefield: 2.5 Km\n\n**Tech Hubs**  \n- Sigma Soft Tech Park Gamma Block 1.2 Km  \n- Akshay Tech Park 2.0 Km  \n- Industrial Area Hoodi 4.1 Km  \n- Nexus Whitefield 1.3 Km  \n- Loyal City Hyper Market 1.2 Km\n\n**Connectivity**  \n- Forum Neighbourhood Mall: 1.3 km  \n- Nallur Halli Metro Station: 1.8 km  \n- Kundalahalli Metro Station: 2 km\n\n**Education**  \n- Tcis - The Cambridge International School: 0.3 km  \n- Chrysalis High Varthur: 1km\n\n### Price Trends \u0026 Comparison:\n\n| Launch Price (2016) | Current Price (Dec 2025\\) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| ₹4800,00/ sq. ft. | ₹12500/ sq. ft. |\n\n### 3. Prestige Lavender Fields \nLavender Fields by Prestige is the newly launched development by Prestige. Located in the art of Varthur, and brings a luxury segment project. The project offers spacious 1,2,3,4 BHK apartments with all the luxurious amenities. It provides lush greenery in the whole society with more than 85% of open spaces, ensuring openness for the residents.   \n\n\n\n| Year Built | 2027 (unconstruction) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 18.6 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 6  |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 32 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 1473 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 2,3,4 BHK |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Manipal Hospitals: 1.6 km  \n- Sahasra Hospitals: 1.5 km  \n- Vydehi Institute of Medical Science: 6 Km\n\n**Tech Hubs**  \n- Brigade Tech Gardens: 2.4 km  \n- Kalyani Tech Park: 2.8 km  \n- ITPL Tech Park: 7.5 km\n\n**Connectivity**   \n- Sarjapur Outer Ring Road: 5 km  \n- Nallur Halli Metro Station: 8.3 km  \n- Whitefield Metro Station: 11.2 km\n\n**Education**  \n- Maple Bear Canadian Whitefield: 1.3 km  \n- Glentree Academy, Whitefield: 2.1 km  \n- Oakbridge International School: 6 km\n\n### Price Trends \u0026 Comparison:\n\n| Launch Price (2023) | Current Price (Dec 2025\\) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| ₹11000/ sq. ft. | ₹12500/ sq. ft. |\n\n### 4. Prestige Serenity Shores\n\nSerenity Shores by Prestige is a newly launched project located in Varthur. Spread across 10.5 Acres land it offers beautiful landscape, lush greenery and open space for residents. This project offers excellent connectivity to Whitefield, Sarjapur Road, Bellandur and Marathalli Outer Ring Road. It offers a wide range of amenities to improve the comfort and experience of the residence.  \n\n\n\n\n| Year Built | 2027 (unconstruction) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 10.55 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 4 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 26 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 657 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 2,3,4 BHK |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Manipal Hospitals: 1.5 km  \n- Columbia Asia Hospital: 6 km  \n- Vydehi Institute of Medical Science: 6 km\n\n**Connectivity**  \n- Belandur Road Railway Station: 5.5 km  \n- Carmelaram Railway Station: 5.6 km\n\n**Education**  \n- Chrysalis High, Varthur: 0.7 km  \n- Deens Academy, Whitefield: 4.5 km  \n- DPS Whitefield: 8km\n\n**Tech Hubs**  \n- Brigade Tech Gardens: 2.5 km  \n- Prestige Tech Parks: 7 km  \n- ITPL: 8 km\n\n### Price Trends \u0026 Comparison:\n\n| Launch Price (2023) | Current Price (Dec 2025\\) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| ₹10600/ sq. ft. | ₹12500/ sq. ft. |\n---\n\n### Why Varthur is a Strategic Commercial Investment\n\n1. High Appreciation: Vathur offers better pricing and less saturation than Whitefield or Old Madras Road.  \n      \n2. Infrastructure Security: The upcoming PRR will significantly improve the logistics access, while the Namma Metro would increase accessibility and connectivity. The Varthur- Whitfield road widening project is also currently underway.\n\n3. Modern Development: Grade A developers are heavily focusing on green certifications and rainwater harvesting.\n\n\n[image1]: \u003c\u003e\n\n[image2]: \u003c\u003e\n\n[image3]: \u003c\u003e\n\n[image4]: \u003c\u003e