---
slug: 2026-01-05-e-city
title: 'Electronic City: Top Residential Hub in Bangalore'
url: https://yourblog.com/blogs/2026-01-05-e-city
---

# Electronic City Metro Bangalore: Impact\n\nFor over a decade, Electronic City (E-City) has been defined by its job density and its peak hour traffic congestion. Although it supported the living of thousands of professionals, families and entrepreneurs, the real estate market became stagnant due to commute issues and old settlements.\n\nThe inauguration of Namma Metro Yellow Line ( RV Road- Bommasnadra) completely redefined the market transforming it from a stagnant zone to a self sustained, high growth investment zone.\n\nIn addition to the upcoming metro, the area has a well planned road network. The Elevated Expressway that connects Electronic City to Silk Board has drastically reduced the commute time, allowing professionals travel to and fro to work with ease. Local buses and cab services by companies like Uber, Ola help make the inter-city travel experience smoother.\n\nThis guide will deep dive into the current market reality and what makes Electronic City a new hotspot for both living and investment purposes.\n\n---\n## Key Features of BLR Electronic City\nE-city is spread across 330 acres and includes numerous IT and tech companies. Electronic city is divided into Phase I, Phase II, Phase III phases, each providing a well planned business environment. The presence of top of the line infrastructure, office spaces further strengthens its position . This area comprises Major residential societies by major developers like Prestige, Ajmera, Provident, Mahindra and many more. Each fulfilling the needs of the buyer from affordable housing to luxurious living. \n\n---\n## Connectivity of Electronic City\n\nThe main strength of Electronic City is Connectivity: \n\n* Hosur Road, along with the Flyover at Electronic City, saving time to the center of Bengaluru.  \n* NICE Ring Road that connects E-City to Mysore yard and Tumkur Road.  \n* Heelalige Railway Station is the nearest to Bangalore Electronic City, providing connection through suburban rail.  \n* Phase 2 of the Namma Metro, is also under development.\n\n* The distance from Bangalore Airport to Electronic City is around 56 km, which usually takes from 1.5 by road.\n\n---\n## Electronic City for the Home Buyers \u0026 Investors\n\nThe E-City is rooted in the combination of great infrastructure, security and strong employment opportunities making it a reliable choice for both end users and investors.\n\n| Features | Key Takeaways  | Why it Matters |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| **Connectivity**  | Since the development of the new metro the commute time has been reduced to 30 minutes instead of the former 90 minutes by road. | Saving professionals more than 2 hours, improving their work life balance and boosting end user demand. |\n| **Future Growth** | Seamless connectivity with the Green Line (RV Road) and the upcoming Blue Line\u000b(Central Silk Board). | Guarantees future city wide access and helps in appreciating the real estate market due to the connectivity. |\n| **Appreciation Rate** | A massive 40% percent surge in prices was seen from the pre metro price. | This means the market is already achieving some pace for growth. |\n| **Demand Diversity** | Strong demand for new launches for both affordable \u0026 premium apartments | Diverse options ensures the market caters to all buyer segments (end user, investors, NRIs). \n\n---\n**Source Notes for Data Points Above:**\n\n* [*Price Advantage \u0026 Appreciation Rate:* ANAROCK Property Consultants Residential Market Viewpoints (Q2/Q3 2024\\)](https://websitemedia.anarock.com/media/Bengaluru_Q3_2024_22520179a3.pdf)  and JLL India Residential Market Updates.\n\n* [*Annual Launches Share:* Knight Frank India Real Estate Reports (2024).](https://content.knightfrank.com/research/2855/documents/en/india-real-estate-residential-and-office-market-h1-2024-11307.pdf)\n\n* *Commute Time:* BMRCL Operational Data.\n---\n## Education, Healthcare and Tech Hubs \nThe area has developed to match the requirement of social infrastructure that this market demands for making it ideal for long term family living.\n\n| Category | Key Institutions/ Hubs | Distance |\n| :---- | :---- | :---- |\n| **Tech Parks** | Infosys, Wipro, HP (Core E-City Campus) | Within 5 km |\n| **Education** | PES University, ISBR College, Delhi Public School (DPS), Treamis World School |  2 \\- 7 km |\n| **Hospitals** | Vimalalaya Hospital, Springleaf Hospital, Apollo Clinic | 1- 4 km |\n| **Connectivity** | Central Silk Board Junction (Start of elevated road) | Within 9 km |\n---\n# Top Residential Societies in Electronic City\n\n## 1\\. Brigade Valencia  \nValencia by Brigade is a newly launched residential society in Electronic City. The project is built with spanish style architecture and is inspired by the city of Valencia. Brigade guarantees an exceptional living experience with its large township next to Narayana Hrudayala Hospital on Hosur Road, Attibele. The development offers 85% open space with more than 35 premium curated amenities to provide a serene experience.\n\n\n\n\n| Year Built | Dec 2027 (in- construction) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 24 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 2 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 27 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 779 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 2,3 BHK |\n| Average Rate | ₹12,000/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Mazumdar Shaw Medical Center: 0.6  km  \n- Narayana Hrudyalay: 1 km  \n- Ayaush Hospital: 5 km  \n- Sparsh Hospital: 10 km\n\n**Educations:**  \n- Bangalore College of Engineering \u0026 Technology: 2.2 km  \n- Manipal International School:  4.3 km  \n- Delhi Public School (DPS): 6 km\n\n**Tech Hubs:**  \n- Biocon Park: 3 km  \n- Infosys Campus : 6 km  \n- Wipro Campus: 7 km\n\n**Connectivity:**  \n- Bommasandra Metro Station (yellow line): 2 km  \n- Heelalige Railway Station: 2.1 km  \n- E-city Mall: 5 km\n\n| Launch Price (2023) | Current Price (2025) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| ₹7,600/ sq. ft. | ₹12,000/ sq. ft. |\n---\n## 2\\. Prestige Sunrise Park  \nSunsrise Park by Prestige is a ready-to-move-in development that is located in Electronic City, Phase 1 of Bangalore. The development comprises two blocks- Birchwood and Norwood that offers spacious, brilliantly designed apartments that fulfills every families need. It is equipped with lavish amenities and a huge recreational area that includes 2 individual clubhouses. The project offers close proximity to major IT companies and businesses in the E-city area.\n\n\n\n| Year Built | 2017 |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 25 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 15 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 19 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 1910 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 2,3 BHK |\n| Average Rate | ₹12,300/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Vimalalaya Hospital: 1.1 km  \n- Sacred Oak Hospital: 1.7 km  \n- Narayana Multispecialist Clinic: 2 km  \n- Cloudnine Hospital: 3 km\n\n**Educations:**  \n- Oriental Public School: 1 km  \n- PES University: 2.2 km  \n- Treamis Schools: 3 km  \n- Christ Academy Institute For Advanced Studies:  4.7 km\n\n**Tech Hubs:**  \n- Electronic City Phase 1 (Infosys, Tech Mahindra) : 2 km  \n- Wipro Gate Shikaripalya Cross: 0.7 km  \n- Electronic City Phase 2: 3 km\n\n**Connectivity:**  \n- Biocon Hebbagodi Metro Station: 0.4 km  \n- Electronic City Metro Station: 2 km  \n- NH-44: 2 km\n\n| Launch Price (2014) | Current Price (2025) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| ₹4,900/ sq. ft. | ₹12,300/ sq. ft. |\n---\n## 3\\. Godrej Nurture  \nNurture by Godrej is one of Electronic City\u0027s most awaited projects. The development is located in the Electronic City Phase 1 and connected to the NICE road. Along with this, the project offers excellent connectivity with Attibele, Hosur Road and upcoming facilities. Godrej Nurture provides exclusive amenities that include a fully equipped clubhouse, recreational activity rooms and 24/7 securities. All these features promise that all the home owners experience a quality living experience. \n\n\n\n| Year Built | Dec 2025  (in- construction) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 23 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 7 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 21 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 684 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 1,2,3 BHK |\n| Average Rate | ₹12,300/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Motherhood Hospital: 1.3 km  \n- Cloudnine Hospital: 2 km  \n- Sacred Oak Hospital: 2km  \n- Kauvery Hospital: 2.5 km\n\n**Connectivity**  \n- Wipro Gate: 0.6 km  \n- lectronic City: 1 km  \n- Hosur Road: 2.5 km  \n- NICE Road: 3.5 km\n\n**Education**  \n- IIFM Business School: 2.8 km  \n- Symbiosis Institute of Business Management (SIBM): 2 km  \n- Delhi Public School: 4.2 km\n\n**Tech Hubs:**   \n- Wipro Main Gate: 0.5 km  \n- Infosys: 1.45 km  \n- HCL: 2.2 km  \n- Electronic City Phase 2: 5 km\n\n| Launch Price (2019) | Current Price (2025) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| ₹5,600/ sq. ft. | ₹12,300/ sq. ft. |\n---\n\n## 4\\. Aratt Ayatana\nAyatana by Aratt, is an upcoming construction luxury development in Electronic City Phase 1\\. The project offers 3,4 BHK luxurious villa style apartments with 5- star hotel-like facilities and amenities. It provides modern architecture that resembles similarity to the Aratt Ayatana Resort. With more than 85% open space, it provides a spacious and comfortable experience to all the residence.                                                           \n\n\n| Year Built | June 2029 (in- construction) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 2 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 1 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 34 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 166 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | ,3,4 BHK |\n| Average Rate | ₹11,300/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Vimalalaya Hospital: 1.3 km  \n- Cloudnine Hospital: 2 km  \n- Narayana Health City: 5 km  \n- Sparsh Hospital: 10 km\n\n**Education**  \n- PES University: 2.5 km  \n- Delhi Public School (DPS): 4 km  \n- Tremis World School: 7 km  \n- Ebenezer International School: 10 km\n\n**Connectivity**  \n- Electronic City: 1 km  \n- Infosys Metro Station: 1.5 km  \n- Hosur Road: 1-2 km\n\n**Tech Hubs**  \n- Wipro: 1 km  \n- Infosys Campus: 1.5 km  \n- HP: 3 km\n\n| Launch Price (2024) | Current Price (2025) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| ₹11,000/ sq. ft. | ₹11,300/ sq. ft. |\n---\n## 5\\. Godrej E-city  \nE- city by Godrej is a low density development in Electronic city. The city offers 19 towers with 5 storeys each to provide spacious apartments to the home buyer.With spacious apartments and broad balconies the project presents with more than 70% of the space dedicated to nature. It offers excellent connectivity to all famous landmarks and just 5 to 10 min away from NICE Road, and huge tech parks.  \n\n\n| Year Built | 2017  |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 15 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 19 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 4 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 840 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 1, 2,3 BHK |\n| Average Rate | ₹10,000/ sq. ft. |\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- Vimalalaya Hospital: 1.5 km  \n- Cloudnine Hospital: 2 km  \n- Sacred Oak Hospital: 2 km  \n- Kauvery Hospitals: 2.5 km\n\n**Education**  \n- Symbiosis Institute of Business Mgmt (SIBM): 2.0 km  \n- International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT-B): 3.5 km  \n -reamis World School: 10 km\n\n**Connectivity**  \n- Electronic City Metro Station: 1 km  \n- Infosys Metro Station: 1.5 km  \n- Hosur Road: 2 km  \n- NICE ROAD: 4 km\n\n**Tech Hubs**  \n- Infosys: 2 km  \n- Wipro Gate: 2km  \n- Electronic City Phase 2 Hub: 5km\n\n| Launch Price (2018) | Current Price (Dec 2025\\) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| ₹4,400/ sq. ft. | ₹10,000/ sq. ft. |\n---\n## 6\\.  Prestige Suncrest \nSuncrest by Prestige is one of the upcoming residential projects in the electronic city. The development is strategically located close to the Jigani, Sarjapur Road, Attibele and other prominent locations. In addition to that the development is just 2.5 km away from the Bommansdra Metro Station, offering seamless access to the city and hassle free commuting.\n\n\n\n| Year Built | 2028 (in-construction)  |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| Total Land Area | 6 Acre |\n| Total no. of Towers | 2 |\n| Total Floor/ Storey | 26 Floors |\n| Total Condos/ Units | 437 Units |\n| Flats/Apartments Size | 2,3 BHK |\n| Average Rate | ₹11,000/ sq. ft. |\n\n                              \n\n**Connectivity**  \n- Bommasandra Metro Station: 2.5 km  \n- NH-44: 3.2 km  \n- Hebbagodi Metro Station: 3.4 km  \n- Heelalige Railway Station: 7 km\n\n**Hospitals**  \n- S R Hospitals: 4.7 km  \n- Motherhood Hospital: 5.8 km  \n- Cloudnine Hospital: 8.5 km\n\n**Education**  \n- Sorsfort International School: 2.6 km  \n- National Public School (NPS): 4.7 km  \n- Zia International School: 8.1 km  \n- The Vedam School: 12.1 km\n\n**Tech Hubs**  \n- Wipro Campus: 5.6 km  \n- HCL: 5.9 km  \n- TCS / Tech Mahindra: 7.4 km  \n- Infosys Campus: 7.7 km\n\n| Launch Price (Feb 2025\\) | Current Price (Dec 2025\\) |\n| :---- | :---- |\n| ₹10,600/ sq. ft. | ₹11,000/ sq. ft. |\n\n## Conclusion\nElectronic city is one of the promising and sustainable in Bangalore with its contribution to the IT sector connecting tech companies, along with a strong workforce and continuously improving infrastructure. It remains India\u0027s leading working and residential area. Its upcoming metro and connectivity will work as a huge catalyst for it being the most loved area by the people of Bangalore.\n\n[image1]: \u003c\u003e\n\n[image2]: \u003c\u003e\n\n[image3]: \u003c\u003e\n\n[image4]: \u003c\u003e\n\n[image5]: \u003c\u003e\n\n[image6]: \u003c\u003e